MAUTE SNIPERS TARGETING CIVILIANS; 182 TRAPPED MARAWI RESIDENTS RESCUED

BY AARON B. RECUENCO AND NONOY E. LACSON

Maute Group snipers are now targeting civilians who are attempting to escape from conflict-stricken Marawi City, the military said yesterday.

One civilian was approaching rescuing government troops when he was fired upon by a maute sniper.

"That terrorist sniper has no heart. We just want to live. He killed a helpless civilian," said Lt. Gen. Carlito Galvez, commander of the Western Mindanao Command, quoting a rescued resident who narrated the incident in between sobs.

PHOTO: https://news.mb.com.ph/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/020617_MARAWI-TANK_02_BALMORES.jpg

Tanks of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (MArk Balmores|Manila Bulletin)

On Saturday, a total of 182 local residents were rescued by soldiers and workers from the provincial capitol and non-government organizations (NGO) in two separate conflict areas in Marawi City. This brought to 1,236 the total number of civilians rescued since the start of the clashes Tuesday last week, Galvez said.

"It is the commitment of our troops to exert every effort to rescue all those trapped in Marawi as we clear the city street by street, building by building, room by room, and inch by inch in order to neutralize all threats," said Galvez.

He said part of the rescue operations are the risk of being hit by the Maute snipers, similar to the fate of the local resident who was killed.

"We hope for the early resolution of this conflict the soonest time possible so that our people in Marawi can go back to their homes and live a normal life again," Galvez said.

For his part, Brig. Gen. Rolando Joselito Bautista, commander of Task Force Marawi, condemned the Maute-Daesh inspired group for killing the trapped civilian while in the process of being rescued.

"This shows the blatant disregard of this group for the life of innocent people, the people of Marawi. They attacked the city and put the lives of everyone in Marawi in grave danger, including women, children, and the elderly. It is the people of Marawi who suffered because of their evil un-Islamic deeds," Bautista said.

"We call on our people to stand and unite against terrorism. The fight against terrorism is not the sole duty of the security sector but the responsibility of everyone." Bautista added.

HEARTLESS

It takes a lot of hardship to survive while trapped in Marawi City, according to rescued residents.

Residents, according to military reports, have to endure hunger, thirst, and sleepless nights as they hide or move from one place to another to find a safe place.

Maute gunmen, the rescued civilians said, are very strict among the residents, killing those who could not even recite an Islam prayer.

This makes rescue operations very difficult, according to military officials.

Aside from the threat of Maute snipers, trapped residents have been hiding for fear of either being trapped in the clashes or seen by the terrorists.

Once civilians are seen by the Maute gunmen, they are allegedly being forced to recite an Islam prayer. Failure to do so would mean death, according to military reports based on the interviews on rescued civilians.

Meanwhile, a total of 120 Maute gunmen have been killed in the latest tally of the military but only 42 bodies have so far been accounted for. Nine others surrendered.

On the government side, the death toll rose to 38, including the 11 soldiers who were hit by friendly fire during an airstrike.

Marawi City has virtually turned into a ghost city as thousands of residents had earlier fled while the rest living in conflict areas were rescued.