ROBREDO LEADS LAUNCH OF LAYLAYAN KOALISYON IN CAMARINES NORTE

BY RAYMUND ANTONIO

Vice President Leni Robredo's fellow Bicolanos from poor communities now have a way to let their voices be heard by the government with the launch of the Laylayan Koalisyon in Camarines Norte.

PHOTO: https://news.mb.com.ph/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/viber-image-10.jpg - (OVP / MANILA BULLETIN)

Robredo, an advocate of the poor, herself unveiled the coalition at the auditorium of Our Lady of Lourdes College Foundation late Friday afternoon in Daet, Camarines Norte.

The Vice President led the launch attended by five opposition senatorial candidates, various sectoral groups, and her supporters in the region.

Robredo said she hoped the Bicol Laylayan Koalisyon would serve as a "platform," which aims to discuss and address problems faced by ordinary Filipinos.

"Iyong Laylayan Koalisyon, makakatulong ito [kasi] siya iyong platform na nalalaman natin kung ano iyong mga pangangailangan ng mga communities, at pinipili natin iyong mga communities na pinakamarami talagang mahihirap na mga kababayan natin," Robredo told reporters on the sidelines of the event.

(The Laylayan Coalition will be helpful since this is the platform to know the needs of the communities and we are choosing among the poorest.)

"Hopefully, itong Laylayan Koalisyon, magkakaroon na ng boses iyong maliliit na dati hindi nabibigyan ng boses, para maipahayag kung ano iyong kaniyang pangangailangan, at ano iyong tulong na puwedeng ibigay sa kaniya ng pamahalaan," she added.

(Hopefully, with this Laylayan Coalition, the poor may have a voice to tell what are their needs to the government.)

About 1,800 attendees composed of opposition senatorial candidates, sectoral leaders, and representatives from Camarines Norte graced the launch of the coalition.

Among the "Opposition 8," present were former solicitor general Florin Hilbay, human rights lawyer Chel Diokno, election lawyer Romulo Macalintal, ex-Quezon congressman Erin Tañada, and former assemblywoman Samira Gutoc.

Robredo, the leader of the opposition, led the signing of manifesto tarpaulin in support of the Bicol Laylayan Coalition.

The Vice President is looking forward to work with various sectors that belong to the coalition.

In a Facebook post, she said, "The challenges that we face in our communities call for collective response, and this is done best when the basic sectors are given the platform to share their views, to make their voices heard."