DUTERTE: NOBODY INTERESTED IN ARRESTING TRILLANES

BY GENALYN KABILING

President Duterte said he was not interested in arresting Senator Antonio Trillanes IV, opting to defer to civilian court to decide on the issuance of a warrant against him.

PHOTO: https://news.mb.com.ph/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/dutertetrillanes-1.jpg - (MANILA BULLETIN)

The President, who has revoked the flawed amnesty of the former rebel soldier, said Trillanes could stay in the Senate if he wants to.

The senator has been using his Senate office as his second home ever since Duterte nullified his amnesty amid concerns he would be arrested without warrant.

"Nobody is interested to arrest them. The military does not have the interest. I do not have the interest. He can stay there as a boarder," Duterte said during a press conference at Camp Aguinaldo when asked if there was urgency to arrest Trillanes.

Duterte maintained there would be no arrest of the senator unless a warrant of arrest is issued by the court. But since there is no order yet, he claimed that the authorities would leave him alone.

"The police, sabi ko do no arrest unless there is a warrant of arrest by the court. Wala pa," he said after attending the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRMMC) at Camp Aguinaldo in Quezon City.

"The military, it has not constituted the martial court so it's only the civilian courts. Wala naman order so kung walang order, huwag na ninyong pakialamanan [There is no order so if there is no order, don't mind him]," he said.

The President has issued Proclamation No 572 revoking the Department of National Defense's resolution that granted amnesty to Trillanes in 2011. The amnesty has been declared "void ab initio" since the senator supposedly failed to comply with two requirements, namely application for amnesty and admission of guilt.

The President also declared the amnesty was "defective" and "fatally flawed," saying it was approved by former Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin instead of then President Benigno Aquino III. Duterte explained that the power to grant amnesty with the concurrence of Congress was a presidential power and could not be delegated to anybody else.