MURDER CHARGES MULLED FOR COPS IN JOLO KILLINGS

Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Eduardo Ano on Monday, July 6, vowed to file murder charges against the nine policemen who killed four Army intelligence officers in Jolo, Sulu.

PHOTO: https://mb.com.ph/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/ano.jpg - DILG Secretary Eduardo Año (PCOO / FILE PHOTO / MANILA BULLETIN)

"Ano man yung motive, ano man ang background niyan, (Whatever the motives and background of the case are) these suspects will be charged and will have to answer for murder," Ano said during an interview over CNN Philippines.

Ano pointed out that autopsy conducted by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) showed that one of the victims, Maj. Arvin Indamog, sustained one gunshot wound in the arm and eight gunshot wounds in the back.

"Yun yung pinaka-revealing doon (That is the most revealing). Why do you have to shoot a person eight times at the back? So that would actually constitute murder," he stressed.

Ano also noted that witnesses also told the NBI that there were also no gunfight that took place.

The secretary said NBI Officer-In-Charge Eric Distor himself has already briefed President Duterte about the initial findings of the investigation during the chief executive's visit in Zamboanga City.

Meanwhile, Ano said the NBI investigation is under way, and they are looking for the closed circuit television (CCTV) footage of the June 29 shooting in Jolo which resulted in the deaths of Indamog, Capt. Irwin Managuelod, Sgt. Eric Velasco and Cpl. Abdal Asula.

"Bakit pagdating doon sa actual shooting wala. We will determine kung may na-delete ba diyan (Why is there no footage of the shooting. We will determine if there is any deleted footage)," he assured.

Ano already gave instructions to the NBI and even the Philippine National Police-Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (PNP-CIDG) to find out who are handling the CCTVs and determine if there were deleted footage.

The secretary added the NBI will also be conducting a re-enactment of the crime.

"That's really very very important. The investigation is not completed until there is also a re-enactment," he explained.

On the other hand, Ano said Duterte has already met last Friday, July 3, with the eight of the nine policemen who were involved in the shooting. One of the policemen tested positive for the 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) following rapid antibody tests.

The secretary recounted the President was very emotional as he expressed his disappointment and sadness to the eight policemen.

"Sabi niya despite na mga binigay niyang benepisyo bakit meron pa ring nakakagawa ng ganyan (Despite the benefits he has given to both the police and military the President expressed dismay that the incident still happened)," Ano recalled.